Bread kit Spec Rough draft (#1)
BreadchainCoop/bread-kit: spec.md

        YieldToken->>CollateralWrapper: deposit{value: X}
    else Pay with wrapped collateral
        User->>CollateralWrapper: approve(YieldToken, X)
        UI->>YieldToken: mint(receiver, X)
    end
    YieldToken->>YieldWrapper: deposit(X, YieldToken)
    YieldToken-->>User: ERC20 shares minted
```

### 2. Voting & Boosts

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor Holder
    participant UI
    participant DistributionVoting
    participant VotingBoosters

    Holder->>UI: open vote modal
    UI->>VotingBoosters: getValidBoosterIdx(Holder)
    Holder->>UI: assign points per project
    UI->>DistributionVoting: castVoteWithBoost(points[], idx[])
```

### 3. Automated Distribution

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant Keeper
    participant YieldDistributor
    participant YieldToken
    participant Projects

    Keeper->>YieldDistributor: resolveDistribution()
    alt ready
        Keeper->>YieldDistributor: distributeYield()
        YieldDistributor->>YieldToken: claimYield(yield)
        YieldDistributor->>Projects: transfer fixed & voted splits
    else not yet
        Note over Keeper: try again later
    end
```
---

## MVP

> Thought for a couple of seconds

Reviewer: hmmm how much of this was done with AI?

Author: I used it to fill in the proper markdown formatting. ill remove these artifacts

Author: Fixed this here 36754ff

> # Introduction  

Reviewer 2: Please add a background, and motivation section

### Why Bread Kit?

BREAD is great. So great that many orgs have reached out to us wanting their own version. Bread Kit is our answer: a permissionless factory so anyone can deploy their own version of BREAD (basic front end included) with custom governance features, branding, and choice between many different yield distribution mechanisms. Bread Kit hands every collective the recipe for its own yield-powered currency, accelerating the flow of resources toward public goods and communities without needing to know how to code. 

This spec covers the full vision of Bread Kit. Many of these features may be far off in the future but are important to think about when designing the MVP. 

### Overview of New Features:

### Chose Yield Source 

> Select between yield sources like sDAI, aave lending pools, curve USDC, etc

Reviewer 2: how about multi-yield source strategies?

### New Governance Mechanisms

> Select between predefined gov mechanisms like the one BREAD currently uses and governance mechanisms discovered through consumer research. Also, make it easy to swap in custom governor for deciding member projects, yield split, and updating parameters (ex. calling the setter function for epoch length). In my personal opinion, the full version of bread kit should allow for deployed controlled through the community governance, not an external admin or multi-sig. In the diagram below I still included admin but I propose that instead of admin being a multisig it uses the same voting as the Distrubtion Voting.

Reviewer 2: Not descriptive enough, please add an explanation of the value added, the step-by-step, what the alternative would be, and the cons/pros of this approach

### Swap Between Solidarity Currencies

> Currencies with the same underlying yield generation engine deployed with Bread Kit can be easily swapped with others (if a group whitelists another). 

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what this means

### Pass through yield 

Instead of 100% of the yield earned being split among the member projects some of the yield can still be passed on to the user. Could the user choose their own passthrough rate or the group defines the passthrough rate.

### Cross Chain Capabilities 

> Currencies aren’t locked to just one chain but main contract logic would live on a home chain. This feature is probably the most out of scope. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currencies aren’t locked to just one chain but main contract logic would live on a home chain. This feature is likely the most challenging.
```

### Subraph with Substreams

> Subgraph auto-indexs all events for modules deployed through bread kit which means we can automatically provide a front end based on there customizations.

Reviewer 2: please link to these resources, explain the motivation , and the value add.

---

## Technical Implementation

```mermaid
classDiagram
%% ─── Factory ─────────────────────────────────────────
class KitFactory {
  +event KitDeployed(addr token, addr distributor, addr voting, addr admin)
  +createKit(params)
}

> %% ─── Meta-Beacon & Proxies ───────────────────────────

Reviewer 2: I would remove all proxy mentions from the diagram for simplicity , and explain your suggested proxy pattern in another section (with reasoning and links to the ERC you plan to use)

class MetaBeacon {
  +implementation() view
  +scheduleUpgrade(newImpl)
  +executeUpgrade()
  +proposeUpgrade(newImpl)
  +acceptUpgrade()
}

class BeaconProxy { <<proxy>> }
class AdminProxy  { <<proxy>> }

KitFactory --* BeaconProxy
BeaconProxy ..> MetaBeacon
BeaconProxy ..> YieldToken
BeaconProxy ..> YieldDistributor
BeaconProxy ..> DistributionVoting
BeaconProxy ..> AdminProxy
AdminProxy  ..> MetaBeacon
AdminProxy  ..> IAdmin

%% ─── Yield Token ─────────────────────────────────────
class YieldToken {
  +mint(receiver,amt?) payable
  +burn(amt,receiver)
  +yieldAccrued() view
  +claimYield(amt,receiver)
  +swap(otherToken,amt)

>   +passthroughBps

Reviewer 2: I would say this needs to be lower in the hierarchy

}
YieldToken ..> ERC20VotesUpgradeable
YieldToken --> IYieldAdapter
YieldToken --> SwapRegistry

%% ─── Yield Adapters (examples) ───────────────────────
class IYieldAdapter { <<interface>> }
class SDAIAdapter
class AaveAdapter
IYieldAdapter <|.. SDAIAdapter
IYieldAdapter <|.. AaveAdapter

%% ─── Swap Registry ───────────────────────────────────
class SwapRegistry {
  +whitelist(addr)
  +isWhitelisted(addr) view
}

%% ─── Admin (Governor / Multisig) ─────────────────────
class IAdmin {
  <<interface>>
  +propose(targets,data,desc)
  +vote(id,choice)
  +execute(id)
}
class TokenMultisig
IAdmin <|.. TokenMultisig
AdminProxy --> VotingBoosters
AdminProxy --> BoostToken
AdminProxy --> YieldDistributor

%% ─── Distribution Voting (points) ────────────────────
class DistributionVoting {
  +castVote(points[])
  +castVoteWithBoost(points[],idx[])
  +currentVotes
  +projectDistributions
}
DistributionVoting --> VotingBoosters
DistributionVoting --> BoostToken
DistributionVoting --> YieldDistributor

%% ─── Distributor (stores & splits) ───────────────────

> class YieldDistributor {

Reviewer 2: Yield Distributor naming convention should be completely abandoned

>   +resolveDistribution() view

Reviewer 2: This should be part of the automation module (there may be multiple different kinds of desired automation)

  +distributeYield()
  +setPassthrough(bps)

>   +setCycleLength(blocks)

Reviewer 2: I would seperate cycle managment to a separate module

  +setFixedSplitDivisor(div)
  +setMinVotingPower(pwr)

>   +setMaxPoints(pts)

Reviewer 2: should be in voting module

  +queueProjectAddition(addr)

>   +queueProjectRemoval(addr)

Reviewer 2: Should be in project management module ( i would also deprecate the project naming convention in favor of yield recipient)

}
YieldDistributor --> YieldToken
YieldDistributor --> BoostToken

%% ─── Boosters / Multipliers ──────────────────────────

> class VotingBoosters {

Reviewer 2: I would reuse the UML from [here](https://github.com/BreadchainCoop/breadchain/issues/71)

| **Admin / Governor (IAdmin + AdminProxy)** | Pluggable module (token-weighted multisig by default) that governs parameter changes and upgrades. Exposes `propose / vote / execute`; on execution it can call any target, typically `YieldDistributor` setters or MetaBeacon upgrade functions. Kits may swap this for their own governor template.                                                                                     |
| **VotingBoosters**                         | Registry of off-chain or on-chain multiplier contracts (NFT badges, referral tokens, liquidity staking) that can increase a holder’s voting weight in **DistributionVoting** (and, if desired, in the Admin governor).                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | **BoostToken**                             | Optional secondary ERC20Votes token (e.g., Buttered Bread) whose balance is counted by boosters and/or governor templates.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer 2: Imo this needs to be a submodule of the voting power , as it augments voting power capabilities

| **UpgradeGovernor (optional)**             | Alternate governor template a kit can select at deploy time (e.g., QuadraticGovernor). Uses the same `IAdmin` interface, so it can replace the default multisig without contract migrations.                                                                                                                                                                                              |

---

## User Flows

### 1. Minting YieldToken

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor User
    participant UI
    participant YieldToken
    participant CollateralWrapper
    participant YieldWrapper

    alt Pay with native collateral
        User->>YieldToken: mint{value: X} (receiver=User)
        YieldToken->>CollateralWrapper: deposit{value: X}
    else Pay with wrapped collateral

>         User->>CollateralWrapper: approve(YieldToken, X)

Reviewer 2: would like some research here on how we can implement this with forward compatibility to not have approve anymore with the new ERCS

        UI->>YieldToken: mint(receiver, X)
    end
    YieldToken->>YieldWrapper: deposit(X, YieldToken)
    YieldToken-->>User: ERC20 shares minted
```

### 2. Voting & Boosts

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    actor Holder
    participant UI
    participant DistributionVoting
    participant VotingBoosters

    Holder->>UI: open vote modal
    UI->>VotingBoosters: getValidBoosterIdx(Holder)
    Holder->>UI: assign points per project

>     UI->>DistributionVoting: castVoteWithBoost(points[], idx[])

Reviewer 2: would like to see different voting module implementations here with their unique flow (like the snapshot version, the gas killer version, quadratic voting, other voting strategieiis
